[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: He was asked what's the
difference between something that's public
and private.
So I rearranged this slightly to show,
I now have an inner function
here which I call upper and
it does the task of taking some
variable and upper casing it.
And then I have this function here,
and I'm using that inner function,
but you'll notice that I'm not exposing
that upper to the outside world.
That is an internal implementation
detail that from the outside world,
you have no access to, but
I'm still able to use it.
So this is what we mean, this function
is declared on line three is an inner
function, it's a private function,
it's not accessible to the outside world.
And we're likely gonna make modules that
have lots and lots of those and lots and
lots of private variables like for
example, the name variable that we see
from line one, that's a private variable,
but we can make other name
variables like we could do id and
we could assign it a random
number is that person's ID.
So now I have a user ID that is
only accessible on the inside and
the only way somebody can ever see that
value is if I choose to make a method that
exposes that in some way,
otherwise it stays private.
So ID now and upper and name,
those are all private things.
The only thing that's public is I make a
reference to that function on this object
that I return back,
that object being a public API.
There's a slight variation of lines 13
through 15 that I personally do in my
own code to make it slightly clearer,
more clear what's happening and it's this.
Instead of returning that object,
I call it public API and
then I return public API.
Now functionally, that's exactly
the same as the previous, but
this is slightly more obvious now what
this object is, it's a public API.
So if I'm looking through
hundreds of lines of code and
I see a thing declared public API, it kind
of jumps out at me as like, hey, hey,
there's a public API here, okay.
It's just a stylistic
choice that I prefer.
>> Kyle Simpson: Just to hammer home this
point of the fact that this inner function
still has access to stuff,
I don't even have to use it in such
a way where I'm passing something to it.
Upper could be called upperFirstName name,
and
it could be set to automatically use
name and so here, I don't call upper and
pass in name, I just call upperFirstName
without needing to pass anything into it.
Still gonna work exactly the same way.
It's gonna call this
private inner function.
That thing is gonna have access to
this variable through the closure,
and it'll be able to receive that
value and do something with it, or
use that value to do something.
So that's why we end up printing
Kyle in capital letters.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now hopefully,
most people have.
>> Kyle Simpson: Somebody's asking
about my variable name text formatting.
Yeah it's kind of,
I have my own sort of weird style
that's actually comes from programming
prior to moving to JavaScript.
So essentially,
I camel case anything that is
a function and
I use whatever the style is called,
I never even remember what they call them-
>> Speaker 2: Snake case [INAUDIBLE].
>> Kyle Simpson: I use snake case for
variables and I use camel case for
functions and that's just so
I remember in my own code is this
something I can call or not.
That's not a terribly common style that
people use, but that's [INAUDIBLE].
>> Speaker 2: Its smart though.
It seems like a good style.
>> Kyle Simpson: I got that from way, way
back, like C programming, I did that and
it's just something,
it's just a habit that stuck with me.
It's not a particularly idiomatic thing in
JavaScript and a lot of people do it, but
that's how I came across it.
[COUGH]
>> Speaker 2: Is JavaScript
not probably case sensitive where if you
have like up there, HELLO was in capitals,
you've used hello with small letters and
it's okay, right?
>> Kyle Simpson: It is not.
JavaScript is completely case sensitive.
All identifiers are case sensitive.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, good enough.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
even in this own piece of code,
I was a little inconsistent
cuz this last name,
probably to keep it consistent,
I should have called that last name.